README.md, before:

# EDC - Everyday Carry for Linux Users

> "A man and his tools make a man and his trade"
>
> -Vita Sackville-West

> "We shape our tools and then the tools shape us"
>
> -Winston Churchill

My personal base image [toolbox](https://github.com/containers/toolbox). 
It is used in conjuction with a [dotfile manager](https://dotfiles.github.io/utilities/) and designed to be the companion terminal experience for cloud-native desktops. 

- Starts with the latest Alpine image from the [Toolbx Community Images](https://github.com/toolbx-images/images)
- Adds some quality of life
  - `starship` prompt for that <3
  - `ranger` file manager
  - `chezmoi` for dotfile management
  - `btop` for process management
  - `python3`
  - `julia`
  - `rust`
  - `tectonic` for minimal latex tool
  - `yt-dlp` to watch your stuff
  - Some common power tools: `plocate`, `fzf`, `cosign`, `ripgrep`, `detox` and `ffmpeg`
- Host Management QoL
  - These are meant for occasional one off commands, not complex workflows
    - Auto symlink the flatpak, podman, and docker commands
    - Auto symlink rpm-ostree for Fedora
    - Auto symlink transactional-update for openSUSE MicroOS

## How to use

### Create Box

If you use distrobox:

    distrobox create -i ghcr.io/storopoli/edc -n dev
    distrobox enter dev
    
If you use toolbx:

    toolbox create -i ghcr.io/storopoli/edc -c dev
    toolbox enter dev

Aditionally, you need a nerdfont-patched font.
I use `Hack`:

    mkdir -p "$HOME/.local/share/fonts"
    curl -fLO https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts/releases/latest/download/Hack.zip
    unzip -d "$HOME/.local/share/fonts" Hack*.zip "*.ttf"
    rm Hack*.zip
    fc-cache -f -v

### Pull down your config

Use `chezmoi` to pull down your dotfiles and set up git sync.

### Make your own

Fork and add programs to this this image - over time you'll end up with the perfect CLI for you.
Keeping it as a pet works, though the author recommends leaving all your config in git and routinely pulling a new image.

The user experience is much nicer if you [set your terminal open right in the container](https://distrobox.privatedns.org/useful_tips.html#using-distrobox-as-main-cli) and is the intended experience. 

## Why?

While LTS images pay the bills they move at that pace for a reason, I wanted:

- Something that kept up the pace with cloud native tech
- Expansive repos so all stack needs are covered
  - But also has all the cool new tools the rustaceans keep cranking out
- apk is _fast_

And of course, as the user space for a cloud-native desktop the biggest reason is it's everywhere in the stack, why not be the "default terminal"?

Also, I've never gotten really to know Alpine, the problem with running distros like this bare metal on my PC is that there's a whole bunch of hardware quirks and all sorts of little enablement things that more generalized distros tend to get right. 

But in a Toolbx/Distrobox world the kernel and anything that talks to hardware is handled by the host operating system.
This let's us concentrate on just the CLI experience, get yourself some of that UNIX bling.
Also apk is fast. Watch the video for more!

[![Video Recording](https://img.youtube.com/vi/7-FPAWjROos/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/7-FPAWjROos)

## Verification

These images are signed with sisgstore's [cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview/). You can verify the signature by downloading the `cosign.pub` key from this repo and running the following command:

    cosign verify --key cosign.pub ghcr.io/storopoli/edc
    
If you're forking this repo you should [read the docs](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets) on keeping secrets in github. You need to [generate a new keypair](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview/) with cosign. The public key can be in your public repo (your users need it to check the signatures), and you can paste the private key in Settings -> Secrets -> Actions.

## Scope and Cynicism

I know what you're thinking, we're just going to shove everything from [Modern UNIX](https://github.com/ibraheemdev/modern-unix) in there and it's going to look like a glitter explosion. 

That's why I'm going to be strongly opinionated, so use this as a base to build your own perfect CLI experience. 
Custom configs are NOT included, those belong in your dotfiles, use them in combination with an image. 

This is a tame first effort, one of you out there is going to make something better than this, the perfect CLI workspace, I salute you. 

## Finding Good Base Images

Of course you can make this however you want, but start with the [Toolbx Community images](https://github.com/toolbx-images/images).
These are a set of mostly-stock images with packages needed to run as a toolbox/distrobox already installed. 

Try to derive your blingbox from those base images so we can all help maintain them over time, you can't have bling without good stock!

Commit message:

feat: nvim with language-servers (#4)
* feat: nvim with language-servers
Some are from apk's testing repo others from npm repos

* fix: COPY argument in Container file

* fix: xargs with custom arguments

* fix: removed tree-sitter due to apk install error

* fix: image now builds

README.md, after:

# EDC - Everyday Carry for Linux Users

> "A man and his tools make a man and his trade"
>
> -Vita Sackville-West

> "We shape our tools and then the tools shape us"
>
> -Winston Churchill

My personal base image [toolbox](https://github.com/containers/toolbox). 
It is used in conjuction with a [dotfile manager](https://dotfiles.github.io/utilities/) and designed to be the companion terminal experience for cloud-native desktops. 

- Starts with the latest Alpine image from the [Toolbx Community Images](https://github.com/toolbx-images/images)
- Adds some quality of life
  - `starship` prompt for that <3
  - `neovim` with lots of language servers, linters and debugs
  - `ranger` file manager
  - `chezmoi` for dotfile management
  - `btop` for process management
  - `python3`
  - `julia`
  - `rust`
  - `go`
  - `lazygit` git management CLI
  - `tectonic` for minimal latex tool
  - `yt-dlp` to watch your stuff
  - Some common power tools: `plocate`, `fzf`, `cosign`, `ripgrep`, `detox` and `ffmpeg`
- Host Management QoL
  - These are meant for occasional one off commands, not complex workflows
    - Auto symlink the flatpak, podman, and docker commands
    - Auto symlink rpm-ostree for Fedora
    - Auto symlink transactional-update for openSUSE MicroOS

## How to use

### Create Box

If you use distrobox:

    distrobox create -i ghcr.io/storopoli/edc -n dev
    distrobox enter dev
    
If you use toolbx:

    toolbox create -i ghcr.io/storopoli/edc -c dev
    toolbox enter dev

Aditionally, you need a nerdfont-patched font.
I use `Hack`:

    mkdir -p "$HOME/.local/share/fonts"
    curl -fLO https://github.com/ryanoasis/nerd-fonts/releases/latest/download/Hack.zip
    unzip -d "$HOME/.local/share/fonts" Hack*.zip "*.ttf"
    rm Hack*.zip
    fc-cache -f -v

### Pull down your config

Use `chezmoi` to pull down your dotfiles and set up git sync.

### Make your own

Fork and add programs to this this image - over time you'll end up with the perfect CLI for you.
Keeping it as a pet works, though the author recommends leaving all your config in git and routinely pulling a new image.

The user experience is much nicer if you [set your terminal open right in the container](https://distrobox.privatedns.org/useful_tips.html#using-distrobox-as-main-cli) and is the intended experience. 

## Why?

While LTS images pay the bills they move at that pace for a reason, I wanted:

- Something that kept up the pace with cloud native tech
- Expansive repos so all stack needs are covered
  - But also has all the cool new tools the rustaceans keep cranking out
- apk is _fast_

And of course, as the user space for a cloud-native desktop the biggest reason is it's everywhere in the stack, why not be the "default terminal"?

Also, I've never gotten really to know Alpine, the problem with running distros like this bare metal on my PC is that there's a whole bunch of hardware quirks and all sorts of little enablement things that more generalized distros tend to get right. 

But in a Toolbx/Distrobox world the kernel and anything that talks to hardware is handled by the host operating system.
This let's us concentrate on just the CLI experience, get yourself some of that UNIX bling.
Also apk is fast. Watch the video for more!

[![Video Recording](https://img.youtube.com/vi/7-FPAWjROos/0.jpg)](https://youtu.be/7-FPAWjROos)

## Verification

These images are signed with sisgstore's [cosign](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview/). You can verify the signature by downloading the `cosign.pub` key from this repo and running the following command:

    cosign verify --key cosign.pub ghcr.io/storopoli/edc
    
If you're forking this repo you should [read the docs](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/encrypted-secrets) on keeping secrets in github. You need to [generate a new keypair](https://docs.sigstore.dev/cosign/overview/) with cosign. The public key can be in your public repo (your users need it to check the signatures), and you can paste the private key in Settings -> Secrets -> Actions.

## Scope and Cynicism

I know what you're thinking, we're just going to shove everything from [Modern UNIX](https://github.com/ibraheemdev/modern-unix) in there and it's going to look like a glitter explosion. 

That's why I'm going to be strongly opinionated, so use this as a base to build your own perfect CLI experience. 
Custom configs are NOT included, those belong in your dotfiles, use them in combination with an image. 

This is a tame first effort, one of you out there is going to make something better than this, the perfect CLI workspace, I salute you. 

## Finding Good Base Images

Of course you can make this however you want, but start with the [Toolbx Community images](https://github.com/toolbx-images/images).
These are a set of mostly-stock images with packages needed to run as a toolbox/distrobox already installed. 

Try to derive your blingbox from those base images so we can all help maintain them over time, you can't have bling without good stock!
